SOURCE URL: https://umbc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/faq/pages/1082589207/UMBC+HPCF+-+chip
TITLE: UMBC HPCF

 
Overview
As of April 2025, the UMBC HPCF(High Performance Computing Facility) is composed of a single cluster, named 
chip
.
Any UMBC staff, faculty, or student may request an account on the cluster to access cluster resources. Accounts must each belong to one or more cluster groups. Cluster groups may only be requested by faculty or staff. Groups are created for research groups, grant awards, or classes.
All of the machines (or computers) composing the cluster are called “cluster nodes”. The “compute nodes” are those intended for computationally intensive tasks. In contrast, the “login nodes” (a.k.a., edge nodes or user nodes) are not meant for intense processing and are only intended for file editing, navigating the file system and storage, and kicking-off slurm jobs. Attempting to run load-generating tasks on the login node can cause a noticeable slow down for other users. These tasks will be killed by system administrators. Repeated offenses may result in a lock of your cluster account. Instead, computationally intensive tasks should be run via Slurm, the cluster workload manager.
Open 
Tutorials
Walk-throughs of common tasks on chip, leveraging our UMBC-Research GitHub 
Welcome to the chip cluster
These tutorials are designed to get new users on chip comfortable with the environment and common tasks.
Getting Started on Chip
Quick Run Guide
 
Common Questions
How to Edit Code on Chip
How to Compile on Chip
 
How to Run on Chip
 
HPCF Documentation
(individual pages on specific topics) 
Connecting
Information on how to connect and access the chip cluster.
Helpful Pages
Terminal Emulators
Credentials
MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication)
 (VPN & Duo)
File transfers
Accessing GUI Applications on Chip using X11 Forwarding
 
Removing Users from Chip
 
Common Questions
How To Create a Chip Account
 
How to Connect to Chip
 
How to Access Research Volumes
Storage
 
Information on accessing and using home directories, research storage, permissions, etc
Helpful Pages
Home directories
Research Volumes
Available Space
umask Settings
Permissions for files/directories
Posture on Sensitive Data
Scratch Space
Common Questions
How to check home directory usage
What to do if you run out of space in your home directory
 
Cluster Specifications
Information about the cluster and its components.
Helpful Pages
CPU and GPU Specifications
Node Schematics
 
Operating System
 
Network Connections
Available Storage Space
 
Common Questions
How we deal with sensitive data
How to be Removed from Chip
 
Editing Code
 
Information on using various code editors such as emacs, nano, vim, vscode, etc
Helpful Pages
Emacs
Nano
Vim
VSCode
Bash commands
Common Questions
How to Edit Code on Chip
 
 
Slurm
 
Information on submitting, monitoring, and running jobs on the cluster.
Helpful Pages
Basic Slurm Commands
Partitions within a chip
Chip Slurm usage rules
How do I request GPU memory?
Common Slurm Errors
Common Questions
What is Slurm?
 
How to run an interactive job
 
Available Software and Packages
 
Information on using Python virtual environments, module systems, etc
Helpful Pages
Modules
Python Virtual Environments
 
List of All Modules
 
Common Questions
How to use modules
 
How to use Python on chip
 
How to run a Jupyter notebook on chip
 
How do I use multiple GPUs in a Jupyter Notebook?




















































 